Dear Matthew Lau,
This email contains detailed instructions for your latebreaking poster
presentation at the 2015 ESA Annual Meeting, to be held in Baltimore,
MD, August 9-14. Please read this email carefully. We hope it
clarifies how to prepare your presentation and what you should expect
when you arrive on site. We are looking forward to an exciting program
for ESA's Centennial meeting.

You may access the online program here:
http://eco.confex.com/eco/2015/webprogram/start.html

Your presentation, “Temporal scales of coupled ecosystem processes
provide a benchmark for alternate ecosystem states: Photosynthesis and
decomposition in a model micro-ecosystem” (#57363), has been scheduled
for:

PS 88: Latebreaking: Community Ecology

Date: Friday, August 14, 2015

Session Time: 8:30 AM - 10:30 AM

Poster Board Number: 86

Location: ESA Exhibit Hall


Presentation Guidelines for Latebreaking Posters

As you prepare your presentation, please refer to the following
guidelines and suggestions. They are provided in advance to help
minimize problems on the day of your presentation.

Make sure your poster will fit on our board. Poster boards are
approximately 2.4 m wide x 1.2 m tall (8 ft wide x 4 feet tall). The
poster is NOT required to take up all of the space provided, only to
fit comfortably within that space. In practice most posters are
smaller than the board, more in the 4-5 ft wide x 3-4 ft tall range.

Pushpins will be provided. These are the only method we allow for
attaching the poster to the board.

If you have handouts, they can be secured to the board in a sturdy
envelope using pushpins.

The Exhibit Hall will be open starting at 8 AM on Friday morning. You
may hang your poster between 8:00 and 8:30, before the session
begins. There will be complimentary coffee and pastries
available. Please remain present at your poster during the entire
session (8:30-10:30 AM).

Your board number is 86. This is where you should hang your poster.

Posters must be hung on their assigned boards. Your board number is
unique for the day of your session. If you hang your poster on a
different board, you risk being marked as a no show and are most
likely taking someone else's board. Your assigned board is where ESA
staff and your fellow attendees will be looking for you.

In the unfortunate event that someone else's poster is on your board
on the day of your presentation, please first check the print program
to make sure you have the correct board. Then go to the Info Desk to
ask for help. Please do not move another presenter's poster! We will
make sure everyone is placed on the correct board in any cases where
there is confusion.

Be sure to remove your poster at the end of your session. We will
begin cleaning out the Exhibit Hall at 11:30, and your poster will
most likely be thrown out if it remains after the poster session has
ended.


Presenter Changes, Cancellations, No Shows

Please let ESA know if you can't present as scheduled. If cancelling
is unavoidable, just reply to this or any other presentation
notification email as soon as possible, even if you can only do so
during or after the conference. If we do not hear from you at all, we
will consider you a no show, which has harsher penalties than a late
cancellation.

The late cancellation fee is $50 USD for all presentation types (any
presentation with an abstract). The no show penalty is a one year
presentation ban, regardless of presentation type (posters and
talks). These penalties only apply to the presenting author, not to
any coauthors. The penalties are waived for extenuating circumstances
(i.e. medical issues, family emergencies, cancelled flights.)

Substitute presenters are ok. If your plans change close to the
conference and you are unable to present as scheduled, please try to
find a coauthor or other substitute to present in your place. You do
not need to notify ESA of last minute presenter changes as long as
someone will present on your behalf.

If unforeseen circumstances delay your arrival on site and you will be
present at the meeting but not in time for your session, reply to this
or a similar email as soon as you can.


Registration and Housing

The Early Bird deadline has passed, and the Regular Registration rate
ends at 5 pm Eastern on Thursday, July 23. This email is being sent to
all presenters regardless of registration status. If you have already
registered, please disregard this section. All presenters must
register to attend the meeting by completing a Meeting Registration
Form and paying the applicable fees. Online registration and print
forms are available at http://www.esa.org/baltimore. Submitting an
abstract does not register you for the meeting. Please email
registrar@esa.org with any questions about registration. You will
still be able to register after July 23, but it will be at the higher
On Site rate.

You can search the ESA hotel block with special rates for attendees by
visiting https://aws.passkey.com/event/13757101/owner/290/home. We
expect some dates may sell out soon due to record high meeting
attendance.


Personal Scheduler and Meeting App

We will email you a link to the personal scheduler soon. If you
haven't used this handy feature before, it's a version of the online
program that allows you to log in and note which presentations,
sessions, and meetings you would like to attend or return to later to
read more about. We will also provide a meeting app for mobile
devices. We will send information about how to download and use the
app in July.


Press, Media, Social Media, Recording Presentations

Presenters are encouraged to contact their media relations or public
information officers (PIO) regarding research being presented at the
meeting. Accepted talks, papers, posters, and abstracts are NOT under
press embargo.

As usual some members of the press will also be present and identified
by press badges. Please note that only official contracted ESA
vendors, ESA staff, and working journalists with press credentials
will be permitted to photograph, video, audio-tape, or otherwise
record in scientific sessions or the exhibit hall (including talks and
posters). Individuals recording without prior permission from ESA or
proper credentials will be asked to cease recording
immediately. Please be courteous to your fellow presenters and help us
maintain a welcoming environment for sharing scientific findings with
colleagues.

You can track and contribute to the conversation about ESA's
Centennial Meeting on Twitter and Facebook using the hashtag
#ESA100. Wireless will be available in the convention center (although
not in the sessions in the hotels).


Thank you for your participation in the 2015 conference! We are
looking forward to an exciting program in Baltimore. Feel free to
contact us if you have any questions.

Carol Brewer
2015 Program Chair
Brewer.Carol@gmail.com

Nancy Huntly
Centennial Implementation Committee Chair
nancy.huntly@usu.edu

ESA Science Programs Coordinator
Jennifer Riem
jennifer@esa.org
